Java Servlet 
Java Servlet technology is used to create a web application (resides at server side and generates a dynamic web page).

The Java Servlet technology is robust and scalable because of java language. Before Servlet, CGI (Common Gateway Interface) scripting language was common as a server-side programming language. However, there were many disadvantages to this technology. 

There are many interfaces and classes in the Servlet API such as Servlet, GenericServlet, HttpServlet, ServletRequest, ServletResponse, etc.

What is a Servlet?
Servlet can be described in many ways, depending on the context.

1.Servlet is a technology which is used to create a web application.
2.Servlet is an API that provides many interfaces and classes including documentation.
3.Servlet is an interface that must be implemented for creating any Servlet.
4.Servlet is a class that extends the capabilities of the servers and responds to the incoming requests. It can respond to any requests.
5.Servlet is a web component that is deployed on the server to create a dynamic web page.

Servlet Diagram 1

What is a web application?
A web application is an application accessible from the web. A web application is composed of web components like Servlet, JSP, Filter, etc. and other elements such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The web components typically execute in Web Server and respond to the HTTP request.

CGI (Common Gateway Interface)
CGI technology enables the web server to call an external program and pass HTTP request information to the external program to process the request. For each request, it starts a new process.

Disadvantages of CGI
There are many problems in CGI technology:

1.If the number of clients increases, it takes more time for sending the response.
2.For each request, it starts a process, and the web server is limited to start processes.
3.It uses platform dependent language e.g. C, C++, perl.

Advantages of Servlet:-

There are many advantages of Servlet over CGI. The web container creates threads for handling the multiple requests to the Servlet. Threads have many benefits over the Processes such as they share a common memory area, lightweight, cost of communication between the threads are low. The advantages of Servlet are as follows:

1.Better performance: because it creates a thread for each request, not process.
2.Portability: because it uses Java language.
3.Robust: JVM manages Servlets, so we don't need to worry about the memory leak, garbage collection, etc.
4.Secure: because it uses java language.

Servlet Container
It provides the runtime environment for JavaEE (j2ee) applications. The client/user can request only a static WebPages from the server. If the user wants to read the web pages as per input then the servlet container is used in java.

The servlet container is the part of web server which can be run in a separate process. We can classify the servlet container states in three types:

Servlet Container States

The servlet container is the part of web server which can be run in a separate process. We can classify the servlet container states in three types:

Standalone: It is typical Java-based servers in which the servlet container and the web servers are the integral part of a single program. 
For example:- Tomcat running by itself

In-process: It is separated from the web server, because a different program runs within the address space of the main server as a plug-in. 
For example:- Tomcat running inside the JBoss.

Out-of-process: The web server and servlet container are different programs which are run in a different process. For performing the communications between them, web server uses the plug-in provided by the servlet container.

Life Cycle Management
Multithreaded support
Object Pooling
Security etc.

Content Type
Content Type is also known as MIME (Multipurpose internet Mail Extension)Type. It is a HTTP header that provides the description about what are you sending to the browser.

MIME is an internet standard that is used for extending the limited capabilities of email by allowing the insertion of sounds, images and text in a message.

List of Content Types
There are many content types. The commonly used content types are given below:

text/html
text/plain
application/msword
application/vnd.ms-excel
application/jar
application/pdf
application/octet-stream
application/x-zip
images/jpeg
images/png
images/gif
audio/mp3
video/mp4
video/quicktime etc.

GenericServlet class

GenericServlet class implements Servlet, ServletConfig and Serializable interfaces. It provides the implementation of all the methods of these interfaces except the service method.

import java.io.*;  
import javax.servlet.*;  
  
public class First extends GenericServlet{  
public void service(ServletRequest req,ServletResponse res)  
throws IOException,ServletException{  
  
res.setContentType("text/html");  
  
PrintWriter out=res.getWriter();  
out.print("<html><body>");  
out.print("<b>hello generic servlet</b>");  
out.print("</body></html>");  
  
}  
}  

Life Cycle of a Servlet (Servlet Life Cycle)

The web container maintains the life cycle of a servlet instance. Let's see the life cycle of the servlet:

1.Servlet class is loaded
2.Servlet instance is created
3.init method is invoked
4.service method is invoked
5.destroy method is invoked

1.Servlet class is loaded
The classloader is responsible to load the servlet class. The servlet class is loaded when the first request for the servlet is received by the web container.

2.Servlet instance is created
The web container creates the instance of a servlet after loading the servlet class. The servlet instance is created only once in the servlet life cycle.

3.init method is invoked
The web container calls the init method only once after creating the servlet instance. The init method is used to initialize the servlet. It is the life cycle method of the javax.servlet.Servlet interface. Syntax of the init method is given below:

public void init(ServletConfig config) throws ServletException 

4.service method is invoked
The web container calls the service method each time when request for the servlet is received. If servlet is not initialized, it follows the first three steps as described above then calls the service method. If servlet is initialized, it calls the service method. Notice that servlet is initialized only once. The syntax of the service method of the Servlet interface is given below:

public void service(ServletRequest request, ServletResponse response)   
  throws ServletException, IOException   

5.Destroy method is invoked
The web container calls the destroy method before removing the servlet instance from the service. It gives the servlet an opportunity to clean up any resource for example memory, thread etc. The syntax of the destroy method of the Servlet interface is given below:

public void destroy()  