Numeric/Math Functions:
ABS function returns the absolute value of a number.
Syntax: ABS(number)

ACOS function returns the arc cosine of a number.(0 to 1)
Syntax: ACOS(number)

ASIN function returns the arc sine of a number.(0 to 1)
Syntax: ASIN(number)

ATAN function returns the arc tangant of a number. ( 0 to ...)
Syntax: ATAN(number)

ATAN2 function returns returns the arc tangent of n and m.
Syntax: ATAN2( n, m)

BITAND function returns an integer representing an AND operation on the bits of expr1 and expr2.
Syntax: bitand( expr1, expr2)

CEIL function returns the smallest integer value that is greater than or equal to a number.
Syntax: CEIL(number)

COS function returns the cosine of a number. (0 to ...)
Syntax: COS(number)

COSH function returns the hyperbolic cosine of a number. (0 to ...)
Syntax: COSH( number)

EXP function returns e raised to the nth power, where e = 2.71828183
Syntax: EXP(number)

FLOOR function returns the largest integer value that is equal to or less than a number. Syntax: FLOOR(number)

GREATEST function returns the greatest value in a list of expressions.
Syntax: GREATEST( expr1 [, expr2, ... expr_n] )

LEAST function returns the smallest value in a list of expressions.
Syntax: LEAST( exprl [, expr2, ... expr_n] )

LN function returns the natural logarithm of a number.
Syntax: LN(number)

LOG function returns the logarithm of n base m.
Syntax: LOG(m, n)

MOD function returns the remainder of m divided by n.
Syntax: MOD(m, n)

POWER function returns m raised to the nth power.
Syntax: POWER(m, n)

REMAINDER function returns the remainder of m divided by n.
Syntax: REMAINDER(m, n)

ROUND function returns a number rounded to a certain number of decimal places.
Syntax: ROUND( number [, decimal_places] )

SIGN function returns a value indicating the sign of a number.
Syntax: SIGN(number)
Returns
If number < 0, then the SIGN function returns -1.
If number = 0, then the SIGN function returns 0.
If number> 0, then the SIGN function returns 1.

SIN function returns the sine of n. (0 to ...)
Syntax: SIN( n )

SINH function returns the hyperbolic sine of n.(0 to ...)
Syntax: SINH(n)

SQRT function returns the square root of n.
Syntax: SQRT( n )

TAN function returns the tangent of n.
Syntax: TAN(n)

TANH function returns the hyperbolic tangent of n.
Synfax: TANH(n)

TRUNC function returns a number truncated to a certain number of decimal places.
Syntax: TRUNC( number [, decimal_places])