Oracle identity column:
Oracle 12c introduced a new way that allows you to define an identity column for a table, which is similar to the AUTO_INCREMENT column in MySQL or IDENTITY column in SQL Server.

The identity column is very useful for the surrogate primary key column. When you insert a new row into the identity column, Oracle auto-generates and insert a sequential value into the column. 
To define an identity column, you use the identity clause as shown below:
GENERATED [ ALWAYS | BY DEFAULT [ ON NULL ] ] AS 
IDENTITY [ ( identity_options ) ]

First, the GENERATED keyword is mandatory.

Second, you can specify an option to generate identity values:

GENERATED ALWAYS: Oracle always generates a value for the identity column. Attempt to insert a value into the identity column will cause an error.

GENERATED BY DEFAULT: Oracle generates a value for the identity column if you provide no value. If you provide a value, Oracle will insert that value into the identity column. For this option, Oracle will issue an error if you insert a NULL value into the identity column. 

GENERATED BY DEFAULT ON NULL: Oracle generates a value for the identity column if you provide a NULL value or no value at all.

Third, you can have a number of options for the identity column.

1.START WITH initial_value controls the initial value to use for the identity column. The default initial value is 1.
2.INCREMENT BY internval_value defines the interval between generated values. By default, the interval value is 1.
3.CACHE defines a number of values that Oracle should generate beforehand to improve the performance. You use this option for the column that has a high number of inserts.
 
Oracle identity column restrictions:-

The identity columns are subject to the following restrictions:
-->Each table has one and only one identity column.
-->The data type of the identity column must be a numeric data type. the user-defined data type is not allowed to use with the identity clause.
-->The identity column is not inherited by the CREATE TABLE AS SELECTstatement.
-->The identity column cannot have another DEFAULT constraint.
-->The encryption algorithm for encrypted identity columns can be inferred therefore you should use a strong encryption algorithm.
-->The inline constraint of the identity column must not conflict with the NOT NULL and NOT DEFERRABLE constraint stated by the identity clause.